add english userguide. (#71)
pingcap/dumpling: docs/en/user-guide.md

# Dumpling manual

> [Dumpling](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling) is a tool that supports export MySQL/TiDB data as SQL text or CSV file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dumpling](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling) is a tool that supports exporting data from MySQL/TiDB as SQL or CSV files.
```

> It is intended to replace `mysqldump` and `mydumper` when targeting TiDB, as a result, its basic usage is similar to Mydumper. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is intended to replace `mysqldump` and `mydumper` when targeting TiDB; as a result, its basic usage is similar to that of Mydumper. 
```

> The following table lists main parameters of dumpling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table lists the major parameters of Dumpling.
```

> | Parameter |     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Parameter | Description |
```

> It's designed to replace [Mydumper](https://github.com/pingcap/mydumper), so you can learn its basic usage from Mydumper. Of course, we didn't make a replica of Mydumper, so there are difference between them.

Reviewer: This paragraph sounds not so professional. Perhaps just copy the statement from the README.

> The following table lists main parameters of dumpling.

Reviewer: Better just copy the output from `./dumpling -h`.

Author: Sounds good, do we need to change Chinese document at the same time?

Author: Some of docs are copied from CLI output, and the description at CLI help message seems isn't clear as this doc, maybe leave this doc as is would also be good.

Reviewer: > Sounds good, do we need to change Chinese document at the same time?

Well the `-h` output is English only 😐. You could change the Chinese doc to fit the meaning English but I think not much needs to be changed.

Author: Some of flags that `-h` prints sees isn't present at this doc(e.g. `--csv-null-value`), and this doc has mentioned `-h` flag at last.

I think it's better to keep consistency with Chinese doc version... Making a replica of existing resources seems a little strange... 🤔

Reviewer: The documentations should be consistent with the actual behavior of the program, not with each other 🤔.

| --------| --- |
| -B or --database | Dump the specified database. |

> | -H or --host | Host to connect to. (default 127.0.0.1) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -H or --host | Host to connect to. (default: `127.0.0.1`) |
```

> | -B or --database | Export to specifcated database. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -B or --database | Export the specified database. |
```

> | -H or --host | Address of node to connect. (default 127.0.0.1) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -H or --host | Host to connect to. (default 127.0.0.1) |
```

| -t or --threads | Number of threads for concurrent backup. |

> | -r or --rows | Split table into chunks of this many rows. (default unlimited) |

Reviewer 2: This seems inconsistent with the Chinese version.
```suggestion
| -r or --rows | Number of rows the table is split into. (default: unlimited) |
```

Author: This description is from the CLI... I think this is more clear...

Reviewer 2: OK

> | -t or --threads | Thread number for concurrence backup. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -t or --threads | Number of threads for concurrent backup. |
```

> | --loglevel | Log level. (debug, info, warn, error, dpanic, panic, fatal, default "info") |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --loglevel | Log level. {debug, info, warn, error, dpanic, panic, fatal}. (default: `info`) |
```

> | -r or --rows | Split table to rows of data. When working with big tables, normally we generate many files concurrencly. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -r or --rows | Split table into multiple files by number of rows. This allows Dumpling to generate multiple files concurrently. |
```

| -d or --no-data | Don't dump data, for schema-only case. |
| --no-header | Dump table CSV without header. |

> | -W or --no-views | Don't dump views. (default true) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -W or --no-views | Don't dump views. (default: `true`) |
```

| -m or --no-schemas | Don't dump schemas, dump data only. |

> | -s or --statement-size | Control the size of Insert Statement, unit is byte. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -s or --statement-size | Control the size of Insert Statement. Unit: byte. |
```

> | -F or --filesize | The approximate size of output file, unit is byte. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -F or --filesize | The approximate size of the output file. Unit: byte. |
```

| --filetype| The type of dump file. (sql/csv, default "sql")           |

> | -o or --output | Output directory. (We have a default value based on time.) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -o or --output | Output directory. The default value is based on time. |
```

> | --consistency | Which consistency control to use (default `auto`):<br>`flush`: Use FTWRL (flush tables with read lock)<br>`snapshot`: use a snapshot at given timestamp<br>`lock`: execute lock tables read for all tables need to be locked <br>`none`: dump without locking, cannot guarantee consistency <br>`auto`: `flush` on MySQL, `snapshot` on TiDB |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --consistency | Which consistency control to use (default `auto`):<br>`flush`: Use FTWRL (flush tables with read lock)<br>`snapshot`: use a snapshot at a given timestamp<br>`lock`: execute lock tables read for all tables that need to be locked <br>`none`: dump without locking. It cannot guarantee consistency <br>`auto`: `flush` on MySQL, `snapshot` on TiDB |
```

> | --consistency | Consistency level during dumping: (deault `auto`)<br>`flush`: FTWRL before dump <br>`snapshot`: specify dump timestamp by tso <br>`lock`: execute lock tables read for all tables need to be locked <br>`none`: dump without locking, cannot guarantee consistency <br>`auto`: flush on MySQL, snapshot on TiDB |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --consistency | Which consistency control to use (default `auto`):<br>`flush`: Use FTWRL (flush tables with read lock)<br>`snapshot`: use a snapshot at given timestamp<br>`lock`: execute lock tables read for all tables need to be locked <br>`none`: dump without locking, cannot guarantee consistency <br>`auto`: `flush` on MySQL, `snapshot` on TiDB |
```

| --snapshot | Snapshot position. Valid only when consistency=snapshot. |

> | --where | Specify the dump range by where condition. Dump only selected records. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --where | Specify the dump range by `where` condition. Dump only the selected records. |
```

| -p or --password | User password. |

> | -P or --port | TCP/IP port to connect to. (default 4000) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -P or --port | TCP/IP port to connect to. (default: `4000`) |
```

| -u or --user | Username with privileges to run the dump. (default "root") |

> More detailed usage can be find by the flag `-h` or `--help`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see more detailed usage, run the flag `-h` or `--help`.
```

## Mydumper Reference

[Mydumper usage](https://github.com/maxbube/mydumper/blob/master/docs/mydumper_usage.rst)

> [TiDB Mydumper Manual](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/reference/tools/mydumper/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TiDB Mydumper Instructions](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/reference/tools/mydumper/)
```

## Download

> [nightly](https://download.pingcap.org/dumpling-nightly-linux-amd64.tar.gz)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download Dumpling at [nightly](https://download.pingcap.org/dumpling-nightly-linux-amd64.tar.gz).
```

Author: How about `Download nightly version of Dumpling [here](download_url).`?

Reviewer 2: Don't forget `the` 😀
`Download the nightly version of Dumpling [here](download_url).`

Author: OK 😁

> [TiDB Mydumper Manual (Chinese)](https://pingcap.com/docs-cn/stable/reference/tools/mydumper/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[TiDB Mydumper Manual](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/reference/tools/mydumper/)
```

> ## Dumpling Downloading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Download
```

# Dumpling manual

**Dumpling** is a tool and a Go library for creating SQL dump (CSV/SQL format) from a MySQL-compatible database.

It is intended to replace `mysqldump` and `mydumper` when targeting TiDB, as a result, its basic usage is similar to Mydumper. 

> See detail at the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Dumpling manual

**Dumpling** is a tool and a Go library for creating SQL dump (CSV/SQL format) from a MySQL-compatible database.

> It is intended to replace `mysqldump` and `mydumper` when targeting TiDB, as a result, its basic usage is similar to Mydumper. Of course, we didn't make a replica of Mydumper, so there are difference between them.

Reviewer: When I say "unprofessional" I mean that sentence starting with "Of course,".

Author: I got it. 🙈

**Dumpling** is a tool and a Go library for creating SQL dump (CSV/SQL format) from a MySQL-compatible database.

It is intended to replace `mysqldump` and `mydumper` when targeting TiDB, as a result, its basic usage is similar to Mydumper. 

The following table lists main parameters of dumpling.

| Parameter |     |
| --------| --- |
| -B or --database | Dump the specified database. |
| -H or --host | Host to connect to. (default 127.0.0.1) |
| -t or --threads | Number of threads for concurrent backup. |
| -r or --rows | Split table into chunks of this many rows. (default unlimited) |
| --loglevel | Log level. (debug, info, warn, error, dpanic, panic, fatal, default "info") |
| -d or --no-data | Don't dump data, for schema-only case. |

> | --no-header | DUmp table csv without header. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --no-header | Dump table CSV without header. |
```

😅
